1. Git Commits
A commit in a git repository records a snapshot of all the (tracked) files in your directory. It's like a giant copy and paste, but even better!

Git wants to keep commits as lightweight as possible though, so it doesn't just blindly copy the entire directory every time you commit. It can (when possible) compress a commit as a set of changes, or a "delta", from one version of the repository to the next.

Git also maintains a history of which commits were made when. That's why most commits have ancestor commits above them -- we designate this with arrows in our visualization. Maintaining history is great for everyone working on the project!

It's a lot to take in, but for now you can think of commits as snapshots of the project. Commits are very lightweight and switching between them is wicked fast!
Let's see what this looks like in practice. On the right we have a visualization of a (small) git repository. There are two commits right now -- the first initial commit, C0, and one commit after that C1 that might have some meaningful changes.

2. 
Git Branches
Branches in Git are incredibly lightweight as well. They are simply pointers to a specific commit -- nothing more. This is why many Git enthusiasts chant the mantra:

branch early, and branch often
Because there is no storage / memory overhead with making many branches, it's easier to logically divide up your work than have big beefy branches.

When we start mixing branches and commits, we will see how these two features combine. For now though, just remember that a branch essentially says "I want to include the work of this commit and all parent commits."

Let's tell git we want to checkout the branch with

git checkout <name>
Note: In Git version 2.23, a new command called git switch was introduced to eventually replace git checkout, which is somewhat overloaded (it does a bunch of different things depending on the arguments). The lessons here will still use checkout instead of switch because the switch command is still considered experimental and the syntax may change in the future. However you can still try out the new switch command in this application
By the way, here's a shortcut: if you want to create a new branch AND check it out at the same time, you can simply type git checkout -b [yourbranchname]

3. 
Branches and Merging
Great! We now know how to commit and branch. Now we need to learn some kind of way of combining the work from two different branches together. This will allow us to branch off, develop a new feature, and then combine it back in.

The first method to combine work that we will examine is git merge. Merging in Git creates a special commit that has two unique parents. A commit with two parents essentially means "I want to include all the work from this parent over here and this one over here, and the set of all their parents."

It's easier with visuals, let's check it out in the next view
git merge name

4. 
Git Rebase
The second way of combining work between branches is rebasing. Rebasing essentially takes a set of commits, "copies" them, and plops them down somewhere else.

While this sounds confusing, the advantage of rebasing is that it can be used to make a nice linear sequence of commits. The commit log / history of the repository will be a lot cleaner if only rebasing is allowed.

Let's see it in action..
git rebase <name>

